CASMINST-1470 Add PCIe/Onboard Customization Doc (#1238)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: install/customize_pcie_hardware.md

# Customize PCIe Hardware

This page will assist an admin with changing the NCN udev rules for varying PCIe hardware.

> If a system's hardware is Plan of Record then this page is not needed.

## Steps

We'll identify the hardware configuration by PXE booting a node.

1. Shim the netboot, ensuring only the PXE binary is consumed by removing the links generated by `set-sqfs-links.sh`

    ```bash
    pit# rm /var/www/ncn-*/{initrd.img.xz,kernel,filesystem.squashfs}
    ```

>     The NCNs will fetch the iPXE binary and then pause, this pause prevents the NCN from continuing to boot while we collect information from it.

Reviewer: "iPXE binary" is used here, but in the main step text, it is "PXE binary". Should this be consistent?

1. Go through each NCN and PXE boot it, replace `username` and `IPMI_PASSWORD` with the present values for the system's BMCs:

    ```bash
    pit# \
    export mtoken='ncn-m(?!001)\w+-mgmt'
    export stoken='ncn-s\w+-mgmt'
    export wtoken='ncn-w\w+-mgmt'
    export username=$(whoami)
    export IPMI_PASSWORD=changeme
    pit# grep -oP "($mtoken|$stoken|$wtoken)" /etc/dnsmasq.d/statics.conf | sort -u | xargs -t -i ipmitool -I lanplus -U $username -E -H {} power off
    pit# grep -oP "($mtoken|$stoken|$wtoken)" /etc/dnsmasq.d/statics.conf | sort -u | xargs -t -i ipmitool -I lanplus -U $username -E -H {} power on
    ```

1. Each node will attempt to PXE boot, successful netboots will dump their PCI-SIG to console. This data can be cross-referenced with the NCN networking page, the directions for this come next.

    - To collect the PIT's device IDs:

        ```bash
        pit# lid
        em1    8086:37D2
        em2    8086:37D2
        p801p1 15B3:1013
        p801p2 15B3:1013
        ```

    - Collect the other NCN's PCI Device and PCI Vendor IDs

        ```bash

>         pit:~ # for file in /var/log/conman/console*ncn*; do echo $file; grep -Eoh '(net[0-9] MAC .*)' $file | sort -u | grep PCI && echo -----; done

Reviewer: Command prompt should be `pit#`

        net1 MAC a4:bf:01:48:1f:6d PCI.DeviceID 37d2 PCI.VendorID 8086
        net2 MAC b8:59:9f:f9:1c:ba PCI.DeviceID 1013 PCI.VendorID 15b3
        net3 MAC b8:59:9f:f9:1c:bb PCI.DeviceID 1013 PCI.VendorID 15b3
        -----
        /var/log/conman/console.ncn-s004-mgmt
        net0 MAC b8:59:9f:2b:31:1a PCI.DeviceID 1013 PCI.VendorID 15b3
        net1 MAC b8:59:9f:2b:31:1b PCI.DeviceID 1013 PCI.VendorID 15b3
        -----
        /var/log/conman/console.ncn-w001-mgmt
        net0 MAC 50:6b:4b:23:a7:90 PCI.DeviceID 1017 PCI.VendorID 15b3
        net1 MAC b8:59:9f:fe:49:d8 PCI.DeviceID 1013 PCI.VendorID 15b3
        net2 MAC b8:59:9f:fe:49:d9 PCI.DeviceID 1013 PCI.VendorID 15b3
        -----
        /var/log/conman/console.ncn-w002-mgmt
        net0 MAC 50:6b:4b:23:a7:98 PCI.DeviceID 1017 PCI.VendorID 15b3
        net1 MAC b8:59:9f:fe:49:f0 PCI.DeviceID 1013 PCI.VendorID 15b3
        net2 MAC b8:59:9f:fe:49:f1 PCI.DeviceID 1013 PCI.VendorID 15b3
        -----
        /var/log/conman/console.ncn-w003-mgmt
        net0 MAC b8:59:9f:d9:9e:2c PCI.DeviceID 1013 PCI.VendorID 15b3
        net1 MAC b8:59:9f:d9:9e:2d PCI.DeviceID 1013 PCI.VendorID 15b3
        -----
        ```

> 1. Using the information printed out, compare the `PCI.DeviceID` and `PCI.VendorID` to what's in [NCN Networking Vendor and Bus ID Identification](../background/ncn_networking.md#vendor-and-bus-id-identification).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the information returned in the previous step to compare the `PCI.DeviceID` and `PCI.VendorID` values to what is in [NCN Networking Vendor and Bus ID Identification](../background/ncn_networking.md#vendor-and-bus-id-identification).
```

        pit# # Restore the initrd.img.xz, kernel, and filesystem.squashfs links to the boot directories
        pit# set-sqfs-links.sh 
        ```

    - If only a subset of the NCNs have differing cards, re-run `set-sqfs-links.sh` and then update just that subset of boot scripts:

        > The below example sets Intel as the mgmt NICs, meaning onboards or Intel PCIe cards would be used for mgmt interfaces. Additionally the example is applying this change to only a subset of nodes, specifically it is applying it to worker nodes only.

       ```bash
       pit# # Restore the initrd.img.xz, kernel, and filesystem.squashfs links to the boot directories
       pit# set-sqfs-links.sh 
       pit # Replace the default Vendor ID with the desired Intel Vendor ID
       pit# sed -i 's/mgmt_vid0 .*/mgmt_vid0 8086/g' /var/www/ncn-w*/script.ipxe
       ```

1. Now the boot scripts are set up for booting differing PCIe cards or onboard NICs.

1. In some cases the cards used for HSN NICs are used for mgmt interfaces, e.g. the system's storage and master nodes use ConnectX-5s. In this case this would ensure the mgmt NICs do not get labeled as HSN NICs:

>     > Note: The HSN NICs key off of the Device ID, not the Vendor ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note:** The HSN NICs key off of the Device ID, not the Vendor ID.
```
